---
title: Somayag
date: 2015-03-08
---


An elaborate fire ceremony known as a Somayag took place in India last month.  David Fields, partner and founder of Sattwa Chai, was in Maheshwar, on site, for this remarkable event. The website somayag2015 has detailed information about the Somayag.  These are ancient ceremonies, and according to the informational website, are related to the science of bio energy.  The energy processes have the power to effect change in the functioning of Prana or life force.   

The somayag 2015 website describes the vision for this Somayag and a series of 7 that have been planned:

“For the past 7 years a small group of people from various countries has held this vision of 7 Maha Somayags on the banks of the River Narmada in Maheswar for the healing of our planet.
The 6th Somayag ( happening now) is known as Atiratra.  It’s purpose, among other things, is to give nourishment and longevity to all living beings on the planet. “

The Sattwa Family has had the opportunity and blessing to attend several of these ancient, healing ceremonies.  In 2003 Faye Fields and Juanita Crampton traveled to Hyderabad, India for a Somayag 2 of 7 Westerners present.  In 2009 Faye was in Maheshawar for the 2nd of the series mentioned above.  She was there in 2010 with daughter Angela for the 3rd in the series.  David participated in the 4th Somayag in Maheshwar in 2011 as well as the current one now in 2015.   

Near to Maheshwar where this remarkable ceremony took place, is a Homa Goshala (cow refuge).  Sattwa Chai has been supporting the care of these cows for the past 3 years.    Our love affair with the cow is associated with our love of India.  And the cow is a significant contributor to the Homa Fires. Homa is the ritual of making offerings into the fire.   Ghee, or clarified butter and cow dung are both used in these rituals. 
